[DOC] Document Forced CA Cert Renewal and Key Replacement (#1800)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/book/proc-replacing-private-keys.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-security.adoc

[id='proc-replacing-private-keys-{context}']

= Replacing private keys

> You can replace the private keys used by the cluster CA and clients CA certificates. When a private key is replaced, the Cluster Operator generates a new CA certificate for the private key.

Reviewer: I think we should add here whatever we do in the other procedure about `generateCertificateAuthority=true`.

.Prerequisites

* The Cluster Operator is running.
* A Kafka cluster in which CA certificates and private keys are installed.

.Procedure

> . View a description of the private key `Secret` that contains the private key that you want to renew.

Reviewer: Why is the user supposed to view the Secret? Seem unnecessary / this step doesn't explain it.

Author: I wanted to help the the user to annotate the correct Secret. But on second reading it does seem like repetition. I'll remove step one from both procedures.

.. To view the `Secret` for the cluster CA certificate's private key: 
+ 
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
kubectl describe secret _<cluster-name>_-cluster-ca

> .. To view the `Secret` for the clients CA certificate's private key:

Reviewer 2: ...the client's CA certificate's...? If so, I might reword to `To view the `Secret` for the private key of the client's CA certificate`

Author: Yes, there is some potential ambiguity. I'll reword.

Author: There are two CA certificates: the "cluster CA certificate" and the "clients CA certificate". I've reworded as follows:

To view the `Secret` for the private key for the cluster CA certificate.

 To view the `Secret` for the private key for the clients CA certificate.

+ 
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
kubectl describe secret _<cluster-name>_-clients-ca

> . Annotate the `Secret` by applying the `strimzi.io/force-replace` annotation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Apply the `strimzi.io/force-replace` annotation to the `Secret`.
```

.. To annotate the `Secret` for the cluster CA certificate's private key:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
kubectl annotate secret _<cluster-name>_-cluster-ca strimzi.io/force-replace=true

> .. To annotate the `Secret` for the clients CA certificate's private key:

Reviewer 2: ...the client's CA certificate's...? If so, I might reword to `To view the `Secret` for the private key of the client's CA certificate`

Author: See above.

+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
kubectl annotate secret _<cluster-name>_-clients-ca strimzi.io/force-replace=true

> The Cluster Operator generates a new private key for the `Secret` that you annotated.

Reviewer: I think we should add note about it being done only in next reconciliation and only during the maintenance window (if configured).

> 

Reviewer: We should probably clarify what impact does it have on clients (they will need to reload the certificates).

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-security.adoc

[id='proc-replacing-private-keys-{context}']

= Replacing private keys

You can replace the private keys used by the cluster CA and clients CA certificates. 
When a private key is replaced, the Cluster Operator generates a new CA certificate for the new private key.

.Prerequisites

* The Cluster Operator is running.
* A Kafka cluster in which CA certificates and private keys are installed.

> * One or more maintenance time windows are configured for the Kafka cluster.

Reviewer 3: Ditto as above, a maintenance time window is not a prerequisite.

.Procedure

* Apply the `strimzi.io/force-replace` annotation to the `Secret` that contains the private key that you want to renew.

+
[cols="3*",options="header",stripes="none",separator=¦]
|===

¦Private key for
¦Secret
¦Annotate command

¦Cluster CA
¦_<cluster-name>_-cluster-ca
m¦kubectl annotate secret _<cluster-name>_-cluster-ca strimzi.io/force-replace=true

¦Clients CA
¦_<cluster-name>_-clients-ca
m¦kubectl annotate secret _<cluster-name>_-clients-ca strimzi.io/force-replace=true

|===

> If a maintenance time window is active, at the next reconciliation the Cluster Operator:

Reviewer: As above - this is good. But I think I would add one more sentence at the end of this paragraph. Something like _If you are not using the maintenance time window, the new CA will be generated in the next reconciliation._ since right now it could be confusing for users who do not use the maintenance time window at all.

Reviewer 3: Ditto as above.
